Faster transform propagation release notes (#2041)
bevyengine/bevy-website: release-content/0.16/release-notes/17840_Parallel_Transform_Propagation.md

Transforms in Bevy (and other 3D software) come in two flavors:

1. Global transforms ([`GlobalTransform`]), which represent the absolute world-space position, scale and rotation of an object.
2. Local transforms ([`Transform`]), which represent the position, scale and rotation of an object relative to its parent.

In order to compute the global transform of each object (which is what rendering and physics care about!),
we need to recursively combine the local transforms of all of our objects down the parent-child hierarchy.
This process, known as transform propagation, has always been one of the most computationally intensive operations in most Bevy applications.

> Turns out, virtually everything in your world is going to have a transform!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As it turns out, most entities in your game are going to have a transform :)
```

Could stick with a ! instead of :), not sure how to indicate tongue-in-cheek better.

Author: ```suggestion
As it turns out, virtually everything in your world is going to have a transform!
```

This made transform propagation a prime candidate for some serious optimization work, and Bevy 0.16 comes with *two* impressive performance optimizations.

> 

Reviewer: > going wide

Needs some more context. Not understandable without background knowledge.

> The first optimization improves our parallelization strategies. While we were already going wide here,

Author: ```suggestion
The first optimization improves our parallelization strategies. While we were already going splitting the work across threads,
```

> The first optimization improves our parallelization strategies. While we were already going splitting the work across threads,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first optimization improves our parallelization strategies. While we were already splitting the work across threads,
```

> better work sharing, parallelization across trees and a leaf vs non-leaf split to optimize cache coherency made a huge difference.

Reviewer 2: I'd mention this was originally R&D'd downstream in `big_space`, so a good chunk of these optimizations are technically upstreaming. :P

The second optimization focuses on saving work for trees where none of the objects have moved.
In many cases, this is the overwhelming majority of objects: level geometry and props are not typically moving around each frame!

> We're now propagating a "dirty bit" up the hierarchy towards ancestors; allowing transform propagation can ignore entire subtrees of the hierarchy if they encounter an entity without the dirty bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're now propagating a "dirty bit" up the hierarchy towards ancestors; allowing transform propagation to ignore entire subtrees of the hierarchy if they encounter an entity without the dirty bit.
```

> The results speak for themselves: taken together, our testing on the incredibly beefy [Caldera Hotel] from Call of Duty: Warzone shows that transform propagation took 1.1 ms in 0.15, and 0.1 ms after these changes in 0.16.

Reviewer: We should note that Caldera is entirely static.

Tbh we should probably check how much perf impact we had on entirely dynamic scenes...

Author: Yeah I can test many_foxes or something.

Reviewer 2: It is significantly faster thanks to parallel transform propagation.

Reviewer 2: About 3-10x faster, depending on the hierarchy.

Reviewer 2: See: https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/17840

Caldera was 3-7x faster on my machine.

While that's an impressive 11x performance improvement, the absolute magnitude of the time saved is the key metric.

> With about 16 ms per frame at 60 FPS, that's 6% of your *entire* game's CPU budget saved, making huge open worlds or incredibly complex CAD assemblies more viable than ever before.

Reviewer 2: The numbers are more impressive when you consider that for most users, it was taking a much, much longer time, like, 4ms on 0.15. The M4 Max is just stupidly fast. In pcwalton's screenshots, it was taking up ~1/4 of the frame time, which is what really motivated the work.

Reviewer 2: It might be nice to find a more representative profile comparison on caldera from 0.15, there were so many optimizations, and the aggregate difference is seriously impressive.

> ![A screenshot of a `tracy` histogram showing the effects of these changes on Caldera. 0.15 peaks at 1.1 ms, while 0.16 peaks at 0.1 ms. Note the logarithmic scale!][caldera-transform-propagation-bench]

Reviewer 2: I think the scale is linear here.
